DOM Manipulation and Events: fix comments position and improve lesson overall clarity (#27574)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/javascript_basics/DOM_manipulation_and_events.md

#### Altering elements

When you have a reference to an element, you can use that reference to alter the element's own properties. This allows you to do many useful alterations, like adding, removing, or altering attributes, changing classes, adding inline style information, and more.

```javascript
// creates a new div referenced in the variable 'div'
const div = document.createElement("div");
```

#### Adding inline style

```javascript
// adds the indicated style rule to the element in the div variable
div.style.color = "blue";

// adds several style rules
div.style.cssText = "color: blue; background: white;";

// adds several style rules
div.setAttribute("style", "color: blue; background: white;");
```

See DOM Enlightenment's [section on CSS Style rules](https://domenlightenment.com/#6.2) for more info on inline styles.

Note that when accessing a kebab-cased CSS rule from JS, you will need to either use camelCase or bracket notation instead of dash notation.

```javascript
// doesn't work - attempts to subtract color from div.style.background

> div.style.background - color;

Author: Maybe include both?
```js
// doesn't work - attempts to subtract color from div.style.background
div.style.background-color;
// the above is equivalent to 
div.style.background - color;
```

> div.style.background - color;

Reviewer: Hmmm, not sure I like the formatting of that relative to the rest of the examples in that block.
Perhaps the following?
```js
// doesn't work as it attempts to subtract color from div.style.background
// equivalent to: div.style.background - color
div.style.background-color;
```

> div.style.background - color;

Author: Indeed, that seems more sensible.

</div>

### Exercise

Copy the example above into files on your own computer. To make it work, you'll need to supply the rest of the HTML skeleton and either link your JavaScript file or put the JavaScript into a script tag on the page. Make sure everything is working before moving on!

Add the following elements to the container using ONLY JavaScript and the DOM methods shown above:.

1. a `<p>` with red text that says "Hey I'm red!"
1. an `<h3>` with blue text that says "I'm a blue h3!"
1. a `<div>` with a black border and pink background color with the following elements inside of it:
   - another `<h1>` that says "I'm in a div"
   - a `<p>` that says "ME TOO!"
   - Hint for this one: after creating the `<div>` with createElement, append the `<h1>` and `<p>` to it before adding it to the container.

### Events

Now that we have a handle on manipulating the DOM with JavaScript, the next step is learning how to make that happen dynamically or on demand! Events are how you make that magic happen on your pages. Events are actions that occur on your webpage, such as mouse-clicks or key-presses, and using JavaScript, we can make our webpage listen to and react to these events.

> There are three primary ways to go about this: You can specify function attributes directly on your HTML elements; you can set properties of form `on[eventType]` (`onclick`, `onmousedown`, etc.) on the DOM nodes in your JavaScript; or you can attach event listeners to the DOM nodes in your JavaScript. Event listeners are definitely the preferred method, but you will regularly see the others in use, so we're going to cover all three.

Author: I used the semicolons here because, technically, each sentence could stand on its own.

> There are three primary ways to go about this: You can specify function attributes directly on your HTML elements; you can set properties of form `on[eventType]` (`onclick`, `onmousedown`, etc.) on the DOM nodes in your JavaScript; or you can attach event listeners to the DOM nodes in your JavaScript. Event listeners are definitely the preferred method, but you will regularly see the others in use, so we're going to cover all three.

Reviewer: They can stand on their own but that's not necessarily criteria that requires semicolons. What would be criteria though, would be if each of those clauses had commas in them themselves, where the semicolons would be needed to separate each list item from each other without ambiguity with each item's inner commas.

> There are three primary ways to go about this: You can specify function attributes directly on your HTML elements; you can set properties of form `on[eventType]` (`onclick`, `onmousedown`, etc.) on the DOM nodes in your JavaScript; or you can attach event listeners to the DOM nodes in your JavaScript. Event listeners are definitely the preferred method, but you will regularly see the others in use, so we're going to cover all three.

Author: True. At first I thought about removing the parentheses that caused the need for the semicolons, but that didn't make it much clearer. 

After thinking about it a bit more, I suggest we use a list instead:
```suggestion
There are three primary ways to go about this:

- You can specify function attributes directly on your HTML elements.
- You can set properties in the form of `on<eventType>`, such as `onclick` or `onmousedown`, on the DOM nodes in your JavaScript.
- You can attach event listeners to the DOM nodes in your JavaScript.

Event listeners are definitely the preferred method, but you will regularly see the others in use, so we're going to cover all three.
```

> There are three primary ways to go about this: You can specify function attributes directly on your HTML elements; you can set properties of form `on[eventType]` (`onclick`, `onmousedown`, etc.) on the DOM nodes in your JavaScript; or you can attach event listeners to the DOM nodes in your JavaScript. Event listeners are definitely the preferred method, but you will regularly see the others in use, so we're going to cover all three.

Reviewer: I like this suggestion :+1:

#### Altering elements

When you have a reference to an element, you can use that reference to alter the element's own properties. This allows you to do many useful alterations, like adding, removing, or altering attributes, changing classes, adding inline style information, and more.

```javascript
// creates a new div referenced in the variable 'div'
const div = document.createElement("div");
```

#### Adding inline style

```javascript
// adds the indicated style rule to the element in the div variable
div.style.color = "blue";

// adds several style rules
div.style.cssText = "color: blue; background: white;";

// adds several style rules
div.setAttribute("style", "color: blue; background: white;");
```

> Note that when accessing a kebab-cased CSS rule from JS, you will need to either use camelCase or bracket notation instead of dash notation.

Reviewer: Just noticed this error (not something you made but definitely needs fixing):
```suggestion
Note that when accessing a kebab-cased CSS rule from JS, you will need to either use camelCase or bracket notation (where you can use either camelCase or kebab-case inside the brackets).
```

Author: Actually, shouldn't this be a CSS **property**?

What do you think about the following:

When accessing a kebab-cased CSS property like `background-color` with JS, you will need to either use camelCase with dot notation or bracket notation. When using bracket notation, you can use either camelCase or kebab-case, but the property name must be a string.

```javascript
// dot notation with kebab case: doesn't work as it attempts to subtract color from div.style.background
// equivalent to: div.style.background - color
div.style.background-color;

// dot notation with camelCase: works, accesses the div's background-color style
div.style.backgroundColor;

// bracket notation with kebab-case: also works
div.style["background-color"];

// bracket notation with camelCase: also works
div.style["backgroundColor"];

Reviewer: Good call on the `property` keyword. Works for me! If you make the change, I can do a final once-over and merge if all good.

```

```javascript
// the JavaScript file
// METHODS 2 & 3
function alertFunction() {
  alert("YAY! YOU DID IT!");
}
const btn = document.querySelector("#btn");

// METHOD 2
btn.onclick = alertFunction;

// METHOD 3
btn.addEventListener("click", alertFunction);
```

Using named functions can clean up your code considerably, and is a *really* good idea if the function is something that you are going to want to do in multiple places.

With all three methods, we can access more information about the event by passing a parameter to the function that we are calling. Try this out on your own machine:

```javascript
btn.addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  console.log(e);
});
```

> <div class="lesson-note lesson-note--tip" markdown="1">

Reviewer: Can you remove this entire lesson-note? This is a planned removal, as it's kinda redundant at this point, and `e` is explained in the paragraph below.

Author: What about the mention about the function being a callback and the callback article?

Reviewer: On second thought, I think it would be nice to clarify the definition of a callback. I don't think the article needs to be linked at all though. It basically goes through the same as what the lesson just had written, and I really think that diving deeper with more examples than already given actually might make learners more likely to overcomplicate what a callback is.

What do you think about the lesson note not being removed, but simply its contents being replaced with:
```
When we pass in `alertFunction` or `function (e) ...` as an argument to `addEventListener`, we call this a `callback`. A callback is very simply just a function that is passed into another function as an argument.
```

Author: Seems fine to me. We can add the callback article in the additional resources.

</div>

The `e` parameter in that callback function contains an object that references the **event** itself. Within that object you have access to many useful properties and methods (functions that live inside an object) such as which mouse button or key was pressed, or information about the event's **target** - the DOM node that was clicked.

Try this:

```javascript
btn.addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  console.log(e.target);
});
```

and now this:

```javascript
btn.addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  e.target.style.background = "blue";
});
```

Pretty cool, eh?

#### Attaching listeners to groups of nodes

This might seem like a lot of code if you're attaching lots of similar event listeners to many elements. There are a few ways to go about doing that more efficiently. We learned above that we can get a NodeList of all of the items matching a specific selector with `querySelectorAll('selector')`. In order to add a listener to each of them, we need to iterate through the whole list, like so:

```HTML
<div id="container">

>     <button id="1">Click Me</button>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <button id="1">Click Me</button>
```
Keeping with 2-space indentation. Same applies to the 2 lines below.

- keydown
- keyup

You can find a more complete list with explanations of each event on [W3Schools JavaScript Event Reference page](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/dom_obj_event.asp).

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">

Manipulating web pages is the primary benefit of the JavaScript language! These techniques are things that you are likely to be messing with *every day* as a front-end developer, so let's practice!

> 1. Complete the challenge in this [MDN article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Manipulating_documents#active_learning_a_dynamic_shopping_list) and test your skills!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Complete [MDN's Active Learning sections on DOM manipulation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Manipulating_documents#active_learning_a_dynamic_shopping_list) and test your skills!
```
Another planned link text change.
